.TH acapd 8 "August 2004"
.\" Copyright 2004 Dave Cridland
.\" 
.\" Licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 2,
.\" or, at your discretion, any later version.
.\" 
.SH NAME
acapd \- Infotrope ACAP Metaserver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acapd
[
.I options
]

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B acapd
is the Infotrope ACAP Server, a reasonably fully conformant RFC2244
server, with RFC2595 (STARTTLS) support, designed to handle lightweight
configuration access across the network.

This is not the real ACAP server, but a guardian process which launches and
controls the acapd\-real binary found by default in /usr/lib/acapd/, resulting in fewer
privaledges needed for the real server, as well as faster restart, etc.

It does, however, respond to the usual signals in the way your expect \- in particular, SIGHUP shuts down the real server and relaunches it, SIGINT and SIGTERM shutdown the real server and then exit the process.

The server as a whole is written with the intention that SIGKILL should be safe, although having to use it would indicate a bug of some kind, obviously.

All configuration of the ACAP server itself is handled through ACAP, within a custom dataset.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-\-program
.I executable
Select the binary to be run as the real ACAP server. This will be provided a control
socket opened on fd 0, debuggers will have to be configured to avoid stdin as a result.

This defaults to /usr/lib/acapd/acapd-real
.TP 12
.B \-\-datadir
.I directory
This argument is passes verbatim to the real server as \-\-datadir, and is used to control
the data root of the server.

This defaults to /var/lib/acap/
.TP 12
.B \-\-user
.I username|uid
Sets the username or uid to exec the real ACAP server as. This may not be root or 0.

This defaults to acapd
.TP 12
.B \-\-group
.I groupname|gid
Sets the groupname or gid to exec the real ACAP server as. Again, this cannot be root,
however it would normally be required to be a user with access to the SASL databases
needed for authentication.

This defaults to a groupname the same as the username, or a gid the same as the uid.
.TP 12
.B \-\-fork
Fork and daemonize the metaserver as soon as it appears safe to do so, and before starting the real ACAP server.

This option is on by default.
.TP 12
.B \-\-nofork
Do not fork, remain in the foreground.

This option is off by default.
.TP 12
.B \-\-log
.I \-|syslog|filename
Use the supplied argument as the log destination. This defaults to syslog, but you can switch it to a filename, or use stdout if \-\-nofork has been selected.
.TP 12
.B \-\-pidfile
.I filename
Write the pid fo the metaserver (used for signalling) to this filename.

This defaults to /var/run/acapd.pid, if writable, or nothing if not.
.TP 12
.B \-\-once
Only run the real server once, then exit if it dies. A debugging aid.
.PD
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
In general, the logging should be verbose enough to explain what went wrong, if anything.
.PP
.SH FILES
The metaserver itself uses no configuration, other than compiled in defaults, all of which may be overridden on the command line.
.P
The real server uses configuration found in its own dataset /vendor.infotrope.acapd/site/.
.PP
.SH BUGS
There are probably huge numbers of bugs, but the intention is to restrict them to the actual server process, rather than this metaserver, hopefully making them recoverable.
.P
Documentation is largely very sucky indeed, feel free to contact the author for help if you need it, and feel even free\-er to give me a hand.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
The Infotrope ACAP Server Administrator's Guide. (In HTML, either installed at the same time, or in the source tarball.)
.SH AUTHOR
The Infotrope ACAP Server, and associated bugs, were written by Dave Cridland <dave@cridland.net>, as was this manual page, such as it is.